*Android Testing on OSCP

1. Application Mapping
    Understand what the application does:
        Does it connect to any backend?
        Does it store any data on the device?
        What phone features it uses (GPS/camera..)?

2. Client attacks
    Verify how protected the app is from someone stealing the phone.

3. Network attacks
    Use Burp to evaluate SSL issues.

4. Server attacks
    Vulnerabilities on the servers.

M1 - Improper platform usage
    Miss-configuration in **AndroidManifest.xml**, check **https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/permissions/requesting.html#normal-dangerous**.
    If the application uses the fingerprint, test this **https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-15/materials/us-15-Zhang-Fingerprints-On-Mobile-Devices-Abusing-And-Leaking-wp.pdf**

M2 - Insecure Data storage
    Consider XML or SQL injection if the application uses this formats.
    Check for sensitive data unencrypted.
    Check for XSS if the app reads and displays data.

M3 - Insufficient Transport Layer (on server side)
    Identify all ssl endpoints.
    Perform SSL Cipher Scan using (sslscan)[1] or similar software.
    SSLv2, SSLv3 is disabled
    TLS 1.2 and 1.1 is supported (1.2 is essential to ensure highest possible secure connection)
    RC4 and CBC Based Ciphers are disabled
    DH Params are >2048 Bits
    SSL Certificate is signed with atleast sha2 / sha256
    ECDHE Ciphers / Ciphers supporting Perfect forward secrecy are preferred
    SSL Certificate is from Trusted RootCA
    SSL Certificate is not expired
    Verify Interprocess communication implementation

M3 - Insufficient Transport Layer (on device side)
    Ensure application is working correctly by navigating around.
    Put a proxy in between the application and remote server. If application fails to load. Application might be doing cert validation. Refer logcat if any message is printed.
    Place Proxy RootCA in trusted root CA list in device. (Burp)[2] (OWASP-ZAP)[3]
    Try using application again. If application still doesn't connect, application might be doing cert pinning.
    You could bypass the certification pinning by Hooking or changing the Smali code:


M4 - Insecure Authentication
    Analyze session management and workflow
    Analyze API authentication using an attack proxy
    Insecure WebViews
    Check if Credentials are being stored in the Datastore or Server side
    Misuse or access to Account Manager
    Authenticating Callers of Components
    Check and validate Sessions on the Backend
    Check for session Timeout Protection
    Check for improper Cookies configuration
    Insecure Token Creation
    Insecure implementation of WebView

M5 - Insufficient Cryptography
    Type SSL/TLS encryption used
    Retrieving files securely using HTTPS URI or a secure tunnel such as implementing HttpsURLConnection or SSLSocket
    Authentication Session Tokens
    Data storage containing sensitive information in clear text
    Access to encryption keys or improper key management
    Usage of known weak crypto algo's like Rot13, MD4, MD5, RC2, RC4, SHA1
    Do it Yourself / let me design my own algo for encryption
    Secret key hard coded in the application code itself.
    Implementation of own protocol
    Insecure use of Random Generators

M6 - Insecure Authorization
    Handling credentials: does the application make use of authorization tokens instead of asking Credentials all the time?
    Verify that the application allows access only to the allowed roles
    Storing username and password in the data storage instead of using AccountManager

M8 - Code Tampering
    Decompile APK using tools such as apktool, dex2jar / enjarify, Bytecodeviewer or commercial tools such as JEB
    Analyze code using decompiler such as JD-GUI or Bytecodeviewer. Commercial version such as JEB allows you to even debug the decompiled application but not in all cases
    After analyzing the code, attempt to bypass functionalities whether by changing the Smali code or Hooking methods using Xposed or Frida frameworks
    Verify if the application has been obfuscated and verify the level of obfuscation searching for specific strings.
    Decompile APK and change Smali, (check this tool which automates the process of decompiling , compiling and signing the application: https://github.com/voider1/a2scomp)
    Android Binaries are basically dex classes, which if not protected can result in an easy decompilation of source code. This could lead to code / logic leakage.
    Jailbreak, Device Rooted- Detection Controls
    Checksum Controls
    Certificate Pinning Controls
    Debugger Detection Controls
    Xposed Detection Controls
    Dynamic loading code
    use of Native code with Android NDK

M9 -Reverse Engineering
    Android Studio with SDK tools installed
    A rooted Android Device or Emulator
    For a rooted emulator you can use CuckoDroid which has Xposed installed
    Different tools installed for decompiling the APK such as apktool,Dex2Jar / enjarify or if you are looking for a total one use Bytecodeviewer or JEB
    IDA pro (for analyzing code flow)
    Smali decompiler/compiler and signer : https://github.com/voider1/a2scomp
    Verify that:

    Has the application be obfuscated?
    Search for key strings and keywords with tools like Bytecodeviewer or JEB
    Search for implantation of SSL pinning , Device rooted or connections to API's (search for words like 'TrustManager' , 'SHA256', X509 ,SHA, SSL , for more info see Android Security Guidelines

M10 - Extraneous Functionality
    For testing this part, it will be necessary to do a code review or Reverse engineer the APK (if code is not available)

