*Structural patterns*narrative
    Help manage how classes organize

Command
    Allows you to encapsulate Requests as an object letting you parametrize clients with different requests. It is used in UI  panels (actions).

Interpreter
    Defines the grammar of a language and is able to interpret it. I.E the southest city given a set of them.

Iterator
    Mechanisk to access aggregated elements without exposing its representation (next/hasnext/remove).

Mediator
    It is an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact. Promotes loos coupling by keeping objects from referencing each other.

Flyweight
    It's a factory class, that allows creating multiple objects, buffering the ones you already created to avoid having to create them again (i.e.in a map).

Proxy
    Provides a place holder to control an access an object. This is useful if you don't want to modify the object itself. For instance, a very time consuming method can be run a thread of the proxy.

Behavioural patterns
    Help manage what classes actually do

Chain of responsability
    Each element of the chain does a small task of work and delegate to the next one.

Adapter
    Convert a given interface to another interface.

Bridge
    Separates abstraction from implementation so that they can vary independently.

Composite
    Different objects that have to be dealt with.

Decorator
    Attach additional responsabilities to an object dynamically.

Facade
    Higher level interface that groups a set of interfaces to facilitat client code's work.

Builder
    Separate construction of complex object from its representation.

Factory
    Interface for creating an object, let subclasses decide which one.

Prototype
    When creating new instances is expensive, you can extend clonable and use a single instance you can clone.

Singleton
    A class that has a single instance.

Creational Patterns
    They facilitate creating other classes

Abstract factory
    Creates families or related objects without specifying concrete classes.

Simple Factory
    Delegating instantiation of objects to a specific class, useful when the creation of the object is complex (strategies/states/...).

Null Object
    Specific dummy implementation of an interface, provides no behaviour, used to avoid having to check for actual null objects.

